In the rapidly changing computing environment with web services and cloud platform, SW development is going to be very  challenging.  SW  development  process  will  involve  heterogeneous  platforms, distributed  web  services, multiple  enterprises  geographically  dispersed  all  over  the  world.  Exist ing  software process  models  and  framework  activit ies  are  not  going  to  be  adequate  unless  interaction  with  cloud  providers is included.
Requirements  gathering  phase  so  far  included  customers, users  and  software  engineers.  Now  it  has  to  include  the  cloud  providers  as  well, as  they  will  be  supplying  the  computing  infrastructure  and  maintain  them  too.  As  the  cloud   providers   only   will   know   the   size, architectural   details, virtualization  strategy  and  resource  utilization  %  of  the   infrastructure, planning   and   design   phases   of   SW   development  also  have  to  include  the  cloud  providers.  The  cloud providers can help in answering these questions on: 1) How many developers are needed, 2) Component Reuse, 3) Cost    estimation, 4)    Schedule    Estimation, 5)    Risk Management, 6)   Configuration   Management, 7)   Change   Management, and 8) Quality Assurance. 
Because  of  the  component  reuse  of  web  services  the  size  of the software in number of kilo- lines of code (KLOC) or number  of  function  points  (FP)  to  be  newly  developed  by  the  SW  engineer  will  reduce  but  complexity  of  the  project  will  increase  many  folds  because  of  lack  of  documentations  of   implementation   details   of   web   services   and   their   integration   requirements.   
Only   description   that   will   be   available  online  is  the  metadata  information  of  the  web  services to be processed by the computers automatically. Only coding and testing phases can be done independently by  the  software  engineers.  Coding  and  testing  can  be  done  on the cloud platform which is a huge benefit as everybody will  have  easy  access  to  the  software  being  built.  This  will  reduce the cost and time for testing and validation.   
But  software  developers  have  to  use  the  web  services  and  open-source software freely available from the cloud instead of  procuring  them.  Software  developers  should  have  more  expertise   in   building   software   from   readily   available   components  than  writing  it  all  and  building  a monoithic  application.  Refactoring  of  existing  application  is  required  to best utilize the cloud infrastructure architecture in a cost effective  way.  In  latest  hardware  technology  the  computers  are  multi-core  and  networked  and  the  SW  engineers  should  train  themselves  in  parallel  and  distributed  computing  to  complement  this  advances  of  HW  and  network  technology.  SW engineers should train themselves in internet protocols, XML, web  service  standards  and  layered  separation  of  concerns  of  SOA  architecture  of  internet  to  leverage  all  the  benefits   of   Web   2.0.   Cloud   providers   will   insists   that   software  should  be  as  modular  as  possible  for  occasional  migration  from  one  server  to  another  for  load  balancing  as  required by the cloud provider [9]. 
Maintenance    phase    also    should    include    the    cloud    providers.  There  is  a  complete  shift  of  responsibility  of  maintenance  of  the  infrastructure  from  software  developers  to  cloud  providers.  Now  because  of  the  involvement  of  the  cloud  provider  the  customer  has  to  sign  contract  with  them  as  well  so  that  the  “Software  Engineering  code  of  ethics”  are   not   violated   by   the   cloud   provider.   In   addition, protection  and  security  of  the  data  is  of  utmost  importance  which is under the jurisdiction of the cloud provider now. 
Also occasional demand of higher resource usage of CPU time  or  network  from  applications  may  thwart  the  pay-by-use  model  of  cloud  computing  into  jeopardy  as  multiple  applications may need higher resource usage all at the same time not anticipated by the cloud provider in the beginning. Especially when applications are deployed as “Software-as-a-Service”  or  “SaaS”  model, they  may  have  occasional  workload surge not anticipated in advance. 
Cloud  provider  uses  virtualization  of  resources  technique  to cater many customers on demand in an efficient way. For higher    resource    utilization    occasional    migration    of    application  from  one  server  to  another  or  from  one  storage  to another may be required by the cloud provider. This may be  a  conflict  of  interest  with  the  customer  as  they  want  dedicated  resources  with  high  availability  and  reliability  of  their  applications.  To  avoid  this  conflict  cloud  providers  need  to  introduce  quality  of  service  provisions  for  high  priority tenants.
Now  we  analyze  how  difficult  will  be  the  interaction  between  cloud  providers  and  the  software  engineers?      The  amount   of   interactions   between   software   engineers   and   cloud  providers  will  depend  on  type  of  cloud  like  public, private  and  hybrid  cloud  involvements.  In  private  cloud  there  is  more  control  or  self  governance  by  the  customer  than in public cloud.   Customer should also consider using private   cloud   instead   of   using   public   cloud   to   assure   availability and reliability of their high priority applications. Benefits of private cloud will be less interaction with cloud provider, self    governance, high    security, reliability, availability  of  data  [Figure  5].    But  cheaper  computing  on  public  cloud  will  always  outweigh  the  benefits  of  less  complexity  of  SW  development  on  private  cloud  platform  and is going to be more attractive.
Innovative software engineering is required to leverage all the  benefits  of  cloud  computing  and  mitigate  its  challenges  strategically to push forward its advances. Here we propose an extended version of Extreme Programming (XP), an agile process  model  for  cloud  computing  platform  and  name  it  Extreme Cloud Programming [Figure 6].  
All  the  phases  like  planning, design, construction, testing  and  deployment  need  interaction  with  the  representatives  from  cloud  provider.  The  roles  or  activities  by  the  cloud  provider  and  SW  developers  are  separated  and  listed  in  Table  1.  Resource  accounting  on  cloud  platform  will  be  done  by  the  cloud  provider  in  the  requirement  gathering  phase.   Software   architecture, software   architecture   to   hardware  architecture  mapping, interface  design, data  types  design, cost   estimation   and   schedule   estimation   of   the   project  all  should  be  done  in  collaboration  with  the  cloud  provider. During the construction phase of the application if web services are integrated where many different enterprises are   involved   then   error   should   be   mitigated   with   the   mediation of the cloud provider. Maintenance contract with cloud  provider  will  be  according  to  the  Quality  of  Service  agreement. 
A software  metric  is  required  for  effort  estimation  of  SW  development  using  the  new  extreme  cloud  programming  process   model.   This   metric   is   required   as   American   consultant  Tom  DeMarco  aptly  stated  in  1997  in  his  book  [16]  about  managing  risk  in  software  projects  that  “You cannot control what you cannot measure”. Constructive cost estimation model (COCOMO) is mostly used model for cost estimation    of    various    SW    development    projects.    In    COCOMO  model  [12]  three  classes  of  SW  projects  have  been  considered  so far.  These  SW  projects  are  classified  as  1)  Organic, 2)  Semi-detached, 3)  Embedded  according  to  the SW team size, their experiences and development (HW, SW   and   operations)   constraints.   We   extend   this   cost   estimation  model  with  a  new  class  of  SW  project  for  cloud  computing platform.   In basic COCOMO model effort (man month), development  time  (months)  and  no.  of  people  required are given by the following equations. Effort Applied  = a(KLOC)b [man-months] Development Time = c(Effort Applied)d [months] No. of People = Effort Applied/Development Time [no.] 
In this section we experiment with the typical values of a, b, c, d  for  Cloud  Computing  class  of  SW  projects  in  comparison  to  other  classes.   The  typical  values  of  the  coefficients a, b, c, d for different classes of SW projects are listed in Table 2.
In  anticipation  of  extra  interaction  complexity  with  the  cloud  providers  coefficient  ais  increased  to  4  for  cloud  computing  platform.  Coefficients  a, b  for  cloud  computing  are  determined  so  that  the  effort  curve  is  steeper  than  the  other   3   classes   but   is   linear   like   the   other   3   classes.   Similarly   coefficients   c, d   for   cloud   computing   are   determined  so  that  the  development  time    curve  is  less  steeper than the other 3 classes but is linear like the other 3 classes.   We   adjusted   coefficients   a, b, c, d   in   cloud   computing to new values of 4, 1.2, 2.5 and .3. Because of component reuse, SW development with cloud computing    will    reduce    KLOC    (kilo    lines    of    code)    significantly.  We  deduce  new  KLOC  =  i*C  +  (KLOC)*C  where   C   is   the   %   of   component   reuse   and   i   is   the     coefficient adjustment for new interface design effort.
Figure   7   plots   SW   effort   estimation   for   project   size   varying  from  10  to  50  KLOC  for  all  4  classes  of  projects.  We  assumed  30%  component  reuse  in  cloud  computing  case.  If  more  %  of  component  reuse  is  possible  it  will  mitigate  the  higher  interaction  complexity  in  coefficient  aand will be beneficial for cloud computing platform. Figure 8  plots  the  corresponding  SW  development  time  estimation  for all 4 classes of SW projects. With 30% component reuse possibility, SW  development  on  cloud  computing  platform  will take least amount of time.
cloud  computing  is  a  paradigm  shift  over  traditional  way  of  developing  and  deploying  of  software.  This  will  make  software  engineering  more  difficult  as  they  have  to  interact  with  a  third  party  called  the  “cloud  provider”.  The  amount  of  work  required  for  developing  software  will  reduce  but  there   will   be   added   communication   and   coordination   requirement  with  the  cloud  provider  which  makes  software  development  project  more  complex.  The  main  thesis  of  this  paper  is  that  the  prevalent  SW  process  models  should  incorporate this new dimension of interaction with the cloud provider  and  separate  roles  of  SW  engineers  and  cloud  providers.    A  new  agile  process  model  is  proposed  in  this  paper which includes the anticipated interaction requirement with   the   cloud   provider   which   will   mitigate   all   the   challenges  of  software  development  on  cloud  computing  platform  and  make  it  more  advantageous  to  develop  and  deploy software on the cloud computing platform.
